2002.11.20 Kaushik Ghose kghose@wam.umd.edu

INSTALLING (WINDOWS/LINUX)
PERSONALISING
FEATURES
THANKS

NOTE** 
1. A detailed user manual in bangla is available in examples\help.txt 
A user manual in english can be found in examples\help_en.txt. My bangla is rusty and help_en.txt may be more "pretty" as far as language goes. Thanks to Progga for going over the help.txt file and suggesting corrections.
2. A changelog is available in CHANGES, and this includes the set of bugfixes. Current known bugs are in BUGS, but this is largely empty when you get it - if I find out about a bug I try to fix it before the next release.

INSTALLATION

WINDOWS

Installing the executable:

1. Goto the sourceforge site http://www.sf.net/projects/lekho 
and grab the latest installation executable. Do read the winreadme.txt file. 
The important thing to note is that the large file (~1.8 MB) has EVERYTHING you need to run Lekho, just add windows. If you are downloading লেখ (Lekho) for the first time use this.
The smaller file has no .dll files and no source code, this makes it considerably smaller (~.200 kB)
Double click on the installer and follow the instructions

2. That's it ! By going to start->programs->Lekho and clicking on the lekho icon you should be ready to go. Take a look at the help.txt in examples\ by opening it up in lekho. help.html will render correctly
on ie6 if you have the usp10.dll (win98,2000,NT and XP) and James Kass' code2000 font.
If all else fails take a look at help_lipi.html, which just needs the adarshalipi fonts to be installed.

Compiling the executable:

1. Get msvc6 or later
2. Install the QT 2.3 free windows version on your computer This is available from

http://www.trolltech.com

3. Download the source tarball for the required version. The source tarball is the same for linux and windows and comes in the form of a gzip file.

4. Unzip the tarball using winzip to a directory. It should default to Lekho\v1.0\

5. Goto the vc6 subdirectory. Double click on lekho.dsw, this should openup a workspace with lekho as the project.

6. Compile and enjoy.


LINUX

Compiling and installing:

1. Ensure you have at least QT version 2.3 on your system. (QT is usually installed in /usr/lib/qtxx)

2. Download the source tarball for the required version.

3. Unzip and untar the package to a directory

4. Go into the Lekho/v1.0/ directory and open up Makefile in a text editor
      Change the default installation and object directories on line 14 and 13 if you wish
      Let us call the installation directory Lekho_v1.0

5. Type make
      Lekho should compile with some warnings.(I'll remove the warning causing code soon)
      Type make install (This copies some initialisation files to the install directory)

6. Install the ttf fonts found in fnts.zip if they arn't on your system (If you use a recent window manager like KDE2, the system->configuration
      submenu should have tools do help you do this eg. kfontinst for KDE 2.

The fonts are available at
http://prdownloads.sourceforge.net/lekho/adarshalipifonts.zip?download

7. Goto the Lekho_v1.0/bin directory and type ./lekho and lekho should run

8. Open up the help.txt file found in the examples folder, or take a look at help.html in a unicode enabled browser. If your browser can't show the page correctly, read help_lipi.html which should render correctly in you have the adarshalipi fonts installed.

PERSONALISATION

PERSONALISING THE LOOK

The .lekhorc file contains information that Lekho uses when it starts up. 
You can mess with this (its in XML format) but Lekho now has dialogs that can do most of the configuring (from the menu item Options)


PERSONALISING THE ROMANISATION RULES

Take a look at the files in the .lekho/ directory. The files kar.txt, jukto.txt and shor.txt contain the romanisation rules. You need to keep a unicode chart for
bangla open by you as you change the first column of each entry in each file to suit you preferences for the transliteration rules. For instance to get the
"onnushor" symbol ং the default rule is you type "NNG"
You probably don't like that. So you open up the file "jukto.txt" and look at the relevant line, which is
NNG 1 0982
which tells Lekho that hitting NNG should insert the single unicode character 0x0982. You would like to use the keystroke "~" to do the job. Just change
the line to
~ 1 0982

CAUTION !!!!

When you are changing the romanisation rules you need to ensure that the first letter of any romanisation sequence in one file eg. in jukto.txt is not the
same as that in another file like shor.txt. If you violate this rule, then the results will be unexpected.

FEATURES
V1.0
 - Copy and paste
      - copy utf8, utf16, screenfont, html character reference
      - paste utf8, utf16, romanised
 - Find and replace
 - Soft word wrap
 - remembers preferences like fonts, colours, position and directories
 - on start up if any input files are missing it creates defaults
 - Print 
 - export to html (inserts headers, tabs and line breaks. Other tags responsibility of the user, as an example see help_lipi.html, thats generated straight from help.txt, by doing export)
 - export to bangtex (look at examples\bangtex_example.tex)

NOTE* 
bangtex is a separate freely available macro package for LaTeX that enables one to have bangla in latex documents. Lekho will convert bangla text into the appropriate macros required by bangtex to "latex" bangla. See the example file bantex_example.tex under examples\

  
THANKS
For feedback, moral support and various bits of information thanks are due to (in alphabetical order)

Taneem Ahmed
Avijit Das (barda)
Abul Fazl (Progga)
S Mazumdar
Robin Upton